docs/game/scripting/reference.md, before:

# Scripting Reference

## Type Descriptors

[Events](#Events) are ScriptTriggers<br />
[Properties](#Properties) are for ScriptConditions (operators not included)<br />
[Operations](#Operations) are ScriptActions

### Events

| EntityIdentifier | TriggerName | RestrictedToActorTypes | Description |
|---|
| ArtObjects\[id\] | TreasureOpened |   |  |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Open | EightBitDoor | When it's opened |
| Camera | Rotated |   | When the viewpoint changed |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Activated | Rumbler, CodeMachine, QrCode | When the right pattern is input |
| Gomez | EnteredDoor |   |  |
| Gomez | Jumped |   |  |
| Gomez | ClimbedLadder |   |  |
| Gomez | ClimbedVine |   |  |
| Gomez | LookedAround |   |  |
| Gomez | LiftedObject |   |  |
| Gomez | ThrewObject |   |  |
| Gomez | OpenedMenuCube |   |  |
| Gomez | ReadSign |   |  |
| Gomez | GrabbedLedge |   |  |
| Gomez | DropObject |   |  |
| Gomez | DroppedLedge |   |  |
| Gomez | Hoisted |   |  |
| Gomez | ClimbedOverLadder |   |  |
| Gomez | DroppedFromLadder |   |  |
| Gomez | ReadMail |   |  |
| Gomez | CollectedSplitUpCube |   |  |
| Gomez | CollectedShard |   |  |
| Gomez | CollectedAnti |   |  |
| Gomez | CollectedGlobalAnti |   |  |
| Gomez | CollectedPieceOfHeart |   |  |
| Gomez | OpenedTreasure |   |  |
| Gomez | Landed |   |  |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Activate | LaserReceiver | When a receiver receives a laser |
| Level | Start |   | When the level starts |
| Owl | OwlCollected |   |  |
| Owl | OwlLanded |   |  |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | RotatedRight | PivotHandle | When it's been rotated right |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | RotatedLeft | PivotHandle | When it's been rotated left |
| Scripts\[id\] | Complete |   | When the script timeouts or terminates |
| Groups\[id\] | Sucked | SuckBlock | When it's completely inside its host volume |
| Groups\[id\] | Explode | PushSwitch, ExploSwitch, PushSwitchPermanent | When a bomb explodes near this switch |
| Groups\[id\] | Push | PushSwitch, ExploSwitch, PushSwitchPermanent | When this switch is pushed completely |
| Groups\[id\] | Lift | PushSwitch, ExploSwitch, PushSwitchPermanent | When this switch is lifted back up |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | ScrewedOut | Timeswitch | When the screw minimally sticks out from the base (it's been screwed out) |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | HitBase | Timeswitch | When it stop winding back in (hits the base) |
| Tombstone | MoreThanOneAligned |   | When more than one tombstones are aligned |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Screwed | Valve, BoltHandle | When it's unscrewed |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Unscrewed | Valve, BoltHandle | When it's screwed in |
| Volumes\[id\] | Enter |   | When the player enters this volume |
| Volumes\[id\] | Exit |   | When the player exits this volume |
| Volumes\[id\] | GoHigher |   | When the player goes higher than the volume/height-marker |
| Volumes\[id\] | GoLower |   | When the player goes lower than the volume/height-marker |
| Volumes\[id\] | CodeAccepted |   | If the input code was accepted |

### Properties

| EntityIdentifier | Type | PropertyName | RestrictedToActorTypes | Description |
|---|
| Game | bool | IsScrollOpen |   | Is there an open scroll? |
| Game | String | GetGlobalState |   |  |
| Game | String | GetLevelState |   |  |
| Game | bool | IsMapQrResolved |   |  |
| Game | bool | IsSewerQrResolved |   |  |
| Game | bool | IsZuQrResolved |   |  |
| Gomez | int | CollectedCubes |   | The number of small golden cubes the player's collected |
| Gomez | bool | Grounded |   | Is he standing on solid ground? |
| Gomez | bool | CanControl |   | Is Gomez controllable by the player? |
| Gomez | bool | Visible |   | Is Gomez visible? |
| Gomez | bool | IsOnLadder |   |  |
| Gomez | bool | Alive |   |  |
| Gomez | int | CollectedSplits |   |  |
| Level | bool | FirstVisit |   |  |
| Owl | int | OwlsCollected |   | Number of owls collected up to now |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | int | Turns | PivotHandle | Gets the number of turns it's relative to the original state |
| Groups\[id\] | bool | IsSucked | SuckBlock |  |
| Time | int | Hour |   | The hour of day (0-23) |
| Tombstone | int | AlignedCount |   |  |
| Volumes\[id\] | bool | RegisterNeeded |   |  |
| Volumes\[id\] | bool | GomezInside |   | Tests if Gomez is inside a certain volume |
| Volumes\[id\] | bool | IsEnabled |   | Tests if volume is enabled |

### Operations

| EntityIdentifier | ActionName | Parameters | RestrictedToActorTypes | Description |
|---|
| ArtObjects\[id\] | SetRotation | float x, float y, float z |   | Replaces the rotation angles (in degrees) |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Rotate | float dX, float dY, float dZ |   | Rotates over time (in rotations per second) |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | RotateIncrementally | float initPitch, float initYaw, float initRoll, float secondsUntilDouble |   | Rotates incrementally over time (in time before doubling) |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | TiltOnVertex | float durationSeconds |   | Tilts the art object on its bottom vertex |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Move | float dX, float dY, float dZ, float easeInFor, float easeOutAfter, float easeOutFor |   | Moves incrementally over time (in units per second) |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | HoverFloat | float height, float cyclesPerSecond |   | Makes the object hover vertically |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | StartEldersSequence |  |   | Does the whole hex-room sequence |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | MoveNutToEnd |  |   | Moves a nut&bolt to its end |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | MoveNutToHeight | float height |   | Moves a nut&bolt to a certain height, and gradually |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | GlitchOut | bool permanent, String spawnedActor |   | Glitches and removes art object (and associated group if any) |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | BeamGomez |  |   | For the hexahedron |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Pulse | String textureName |   | For the glow blocks |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Say | String text, bool zuish |   | For the zuish speech |
| BackgroundPlanes\[id\] | Open |  | BigWaterfall |  |
| Camera | SetPixelsPerTrixel | int triles |   | Set the number of pixels per trixel (default is 4) |
| Camera | SetCanRotate | bool canRotate |   | Changes whether Gomez can rotate the camera |
| Camera | Rotate | int distance |   | Forces camera rotation, left (-1 to -3) or right (1 to 3) |
| Camera | RotateTo | String viewName |   | Rotates to any view orientation (Left, Right, Front, Back) |
| Camera | FadeTo | String colorName |   | Fades to the chosen color (Black, White, etc.) |
| Camera | FadeFrom | String colorName |   | Fades from the chosen color (Black, White, etc.) |
| Camera | Flash | String colorName |   | Flashes the chosen color once (Black, White, etc.) |
| Camera | Shake | float distance, float durationSeconds |   | Shakes the camera and vibrates controller |
| Camera | SetDescending | bool descending |   | Sets the camera offset as descending (true) or ascending (false) |
| Camera | Unconstrain |  |   | Remove the constraints (volume focus etc.) |
| Dot | Say | String line, bool nearGomez, bool hideAfter |   | Makes Dot say a custom text line |
| Dot | ComeBackAndHide | bool withCamera |   | Hides Dot in Gomez's hat |
| Dot | SpiralAround | bool withCamera, bool hideDot |   | Spiral around the level, yo |
| Game | EndTrial | bool forceRestart |   | Stops the trial EXPERIENCE and requires that the game is bought to continue |
| Game | Wait | float seconds |   | Pauses the script for some time |
| Game | GlitchUp |  |   | Glitch up |
| Game | Reboot | String toLevel |   | Reboots |
| Game | SetGravity | bool inverted, float factor |   | Changes gravity |
| Game | ShowScroll | String localizedString, float forSeconds, bool onTop, bool onVolume |   | Show scroll with localized string, for some time or indefinitely (0 or less), at the top or the bottom of the screen |
| Game | CloseScroll | String key |   | Hides the current scroll immediately |
| Game | SetGlobalState | String state |   | Sets a state string that is kept between levels |
| Game | SetLevelState | String state |   | Sets a state string that is local to that level |
| Game | AllowMapUsage |  |   |  |
| Game | Start32BitCutscene |  |   |  |
| Game | Start64BitCutscene |  |   |  |
| Game | Checkpoint |  |   |  |
| Game | ResolveMapQR |  |   |  |
| Game | ResolveSewerQR |  |   |  |
| Game | ResolveZuQR |  |   |  |
| Game | ShowCapsuleLetter |  |   |  |
| Gomez | SetCanControl | bool controllable |   | Sets whether Gomez can be controlled by the player |
| Gomez | SetAction | String actionName |   | Sets the current action (animation) for Gomez |
| Gomez | AllowEnterTunnel |  |   | Allows Gomez to enter that tunnel/passageway by pressing up |
| Gomez | SetFezVisible | bool visible |   | Shows/Hides gomez's fez |
| Gomez | SetGomezVisible | bool visible |   | Shows/Hides gomez |
| Groups\[id\] | StartPath | bool backwards |   | Starts the group's moving path (must be set 'Needs Trigger') |
| Groups\[id\] | RunPathOnce | bool backwards |   | Runs the group's moving path, but only once (must be set 'Needs Trigger') |
| Groups\[id\] | RunSingleSegment | bool backwards |   | Runs a single segment of the group's moving path (must be set 'Needs Trigger') |
| Groups\[id\] | Stop |  |   | Stops or pauses a moving group |
| Groups\[id\] | Move | float dX, float dY, float dZ |   | Moves a group incrementally over time (units per second) |
| Groups\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled |   | Enables or disables all of a group's triles |
| Groups\[id\] | MovePathToEnd |  |   | Moves a moving group to the end of its path |
| Groups\[id\] | GlitchyDespawn | bool permanent |   | Moves a moving group to the end of its path |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled | LaserEmitter | Starts or stops an emitter |
| Level | AllowPipeChangeLevel | String levelName |   | Changes the level MARIO-STYLE |
| Level | ChangeLevel | String levelName, bool asDoor, bool spin, bool trialEnding |   | Changes the level; if 'asDoor' is true, the level change occurs if gomez enters the door, else it's done immediately |
| Level | ReturnToLastLevel | bool asDoor, bool spin |   | Returns to the last accessed level; if 'asDoor' is true, the level change occurs if gomez enters the door, else it's done immediately |
| Level | ChangeToFarAwayLevel | String levelName, int toVolume, bool trialEnding |   | Changes the faraway level to a specific volume in the destination level; if 'asDoor' is true, the level change occurs if gomez enters the door, else it's done immediately |
| Level | ChangeLevelToVolume | String levelName, int toVolume, bool asDoor, bool spin, bool trialEnding |   | Changes the level to a specific volume in the destination level; if 'asDoor' is true, the level change occurs if gomez enters the door, else it's done immediately |
| Level | ExploChangeLevel | String levelName |   | Produces an epic explosion and changes level when it's done. |
| Level | SetWaterHeight | float height |   | Smoothly changes to a new water height |
| Level | RaiseWater | float unitsPerSecond, float stopAtHeight |   | Makes water rise to a certain threshold |
| Level | StopWater |  |   | Makes water stop raising immediately |
| Level | ResolvePuzzle |  |   | Marks a puzzle as solved, and plays the chime |
| Level | ResolvePuzzleSilent |  |   | Silently resolves a puzzle |
| Level | ResolvePuzzleSoundOnly |  |   |  |
| NonPlayerCharacters\[id\] | Say | String line, String customSound, String customAnimation |   | Makes the NPC say a custom text line |
| NonPlayerCharacters\[id\] | CarryGeezerLetter |  |   | CarryGeezerLetter |
| Paths\[id\] | Start | bool inTransition, bool outTransition |   | Applies the whole path to the camera |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled | PivotHandle | Enables or disables a pivot handle's rotatability |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | RotateTo | int turns | PivotHandle | Enables or disables a pivot handle's rotatability |
| BackgroundPlanes\[id\] | FadeIn | float seconds |   |  |
| BackgroundPlanes\[id\] | FadeOut | float seconds |   |  |
| BackgroundPlanes\[id\] | Flicker | float factor |   |  |
| Groups\[id\] | Rotate | bool clockwise, int turns | RotatingGroup |  |
| Groups\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled | RotatingGroup |  |
| Scripts\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled |   | Enables or disables a script |
| Scripts\[id\] | Evaluate |  |   | Evaluates a script |
| Sound | Play | String soundName |   | Plays a sound by its filename |
| Sound | PlayNext | String soundPrefix |   | Plays a sound by its prefix and an auto-incremented index (starts at 1) |
| Sound | SetMusicVolume | float volume |   | Changes the volume of BGM |
| Sound | ResetIndices | String soundPrefix |   | Resets the indices for a sound |
| Sound | ChangeMusic | String newMusic |   | Changes the music track and plays it |
| Sound | UnmuteTrack | String trackName, float fadeDuration |   | Enables a track by its name |
| Sound | MuteTrack | String trackName, float fadeDuration |   | Disables a track by its name |
| Sound | UnmuteAmbience | String trackName, float fadeDuration |   |  |
| Sound | MuteAmbience | String trackName, float fadeDuration |   |  |
| Sound | FadeMusicOut | float overSeconds |   | Fades the music out |
| Sound | FadeMusicTo | float to, float overSeconds |   |  |
| Sound | ChangePhases | String trackName, bool dawn, bool day, bool dusk, bool night |   |  |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled | SpinBlock | Enables or disables a spinblock (which ceases or resumes its spinning) |
| Groups\[id\] | Activate |  | PushSwitch, ExploSwitch, PushSwitchPermanent | Activates this switch |
| Groups\[id\] | ChangeTrile | int newTrileId | PushSwitch, ExploSwitch, PushSwitchPermanent | Changes the visual of this switch's triles |
| Time | SetHour | int hour, bool immediate |   | Changes the hour of day (0-23), gradually or immediately |
| Time | SetTimeFactor | int factor |   | Sets the speed of time passage (0 = paused) |
| Time | IncrementTimeFactor | float secondsUntilDouble |   | Increments the time factor (specifying how much time before it doubles up) |
| Tombstone | UpdateAlignCount | int count |   |  |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled | Valve, BoltHandle | Enables or disables a valve's rotatability |
| Volumes\[id\] | FocusCamera | int pixelsPerTrixel, bool immediate |   | Center the camera view on this volume; set a value <= 0 to pixelsPerTrixels if you don't want to alter it. Immediate doesn't wait for an end-trigger |
| Volumes\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled, bool permanent |   | Disables or enables this volume |
| Volumes\[id\] | SlowFocusOn | float duration, float trixPerPix |   | Slowly focuses camera on a volume |
| Volumes\[id\] | LoadHexahedronAt | String toLevel |   | Loads the hex in the middle of a specified volume, and warp to the specified level afterwards |
| Volumes\[id\] | PlaySoundAt | String soundName, bool loop, float initialDelay, float perLoopDelay, bool directional, float pitchVariation |   | Plays a sound on the specified volume, looped or not, directional or not (follows volume's enabled directions) |
| Volumes\[id\] | MoveDotWithCamera |  |   | Moves Dot and the camera to the specified volume's center |
| Volumes\[id\] | FocusWithPan | int pixelsPerTrixel, float verticalPan, float horizontalPan |   | Focuses the camera with panning support |
| Volumes\[id\] | SpawnTrileAt | String actorTypeName |   | Spawns a treasure trile at this volume's location |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled | WarpGate |  |

Commit message:

added note to script operations

docs/game/scripting/reference.md, after:

# Scripting Reference

## Type Descriptors

[Events](#Events) are ScriptTriggers<br />
[Properties](#Properties) are for ScriptConditions (operators not included)<br />
[Operations](#Operations) are ScriptActions

### Events

| EntityIdentifier | TriggerName | RestrictedToActorTypes | Description |
|---|
| ArtObjects\[id\] | TreasureOpened |   |  |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Open | EightBitDoor | When it's opened |
| Camera | Rotated |   | When the viewpoint changed |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Activated | Rumbler, CodeMachine, QrCode | When the right pattern is input |
| Gomez | EnteredDoor |   |  |
| Gomez | Jumped |   |  |
| Gomez | ClimbedLadder |   |  |
| Gomez | ClimbedVine |   |  |
| Gomez | LookedAround |   |  |
| Gomez | LiftedObject |   |  |
| Gomez | ThrewObject |   |  |
| Gomez | OpenedMenuCube |   |  |
| Gomez | ReadSign |   |  |
| Gomez | GrabbedLedge |   |  |
| Gomez | DropObject |   |  |
| Gomez | DroppedLedge |   |  |
| Gomez | Hoisted |   |  |
| Gomez | ClimbedOverLadder |   |  |
| Gomez | DroppedFromLadder |   |  |
| Gomez | ReadMail |   |  |
| Gomez | CollectedSplitUpCube |   |  |
| Gomez | CollectedShard |   |  |
| Gomez | CollectedAnti |   |  |
| Gomez | CollectedGlobalAnti |   |  |
| Gomez | CollectedPieceOfHeart |   |  |
| Gomez | OpenedTreasure |   |  |
| Gomez | Landed |   |  |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Activate | LaserReceiver | When a receiver receives a laser |
| Level | Start |   | When the level starts |
| Owl | OwlCollected |   |  |
| Owl | OwlLanded |   |  |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | RotatedRight | PivotHandle | When it's been rotated right |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | RotatedLeft | PivotHandle | When it's been rotated left |
| Scripts\[id\] | Complete |   | When the script timeouts or terminates |
| Groups\[id\] | Sucked | SuckBlock | When it's completely inside its host volume |
| Groups\[id\] | Explode | PushSwitch, ExploSwitch, PushSwitchPermanent | When a bomb explodes near this switch |
| Groups\[id\] | Push | PushSwitch, ExploSwitch, PushSwitchPermanent | When this switch is pushed completely |
| Groups\[id\] | Lift | PushSwitch, ExploSwitch, PushSwitchPermanent | When this switch is lifted back up |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | ScrewedOut | Timeswitch | When the screw minimally sticks out from the base (it's been screwed out) |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | HitBase | Timeswitch | When it stop winding back in (hits the base) |
| Tombstone | MoreThanOneAligned |   | When more than one tombstones are aligned |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Screwed | Valve, BoltHandle | When it's unscrewed |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Unscrewed | Valve, BoltHandle | When it's screwed in |
| Volumes\[id\] | Enter |   | When the player enters this volume |
| Volumes\[id\] | Exit |   | When the player exits this volume |
| Volumes\[id\] | GoHigher |   | When the player goes higher than the volume/height-marker |
| Volumes\[id\] | GoLower |   | When the player goes lower than the volume/height-marker |
| Volumes\[id\] | CodeAccepted |   | If the input code was accepted |

### Properties

| EntityIdentifier | Type | PropertyName | RestrictedToActorTypes | Description |
|---|
| Game | bool | IsScrollOpen |   | Is there an open scroll? |
| Game | String | GetGlobalState |   |  |
| Game | String | GetLevelState |   |  |
| Game | bool | IsMapQrResolved |   |  |
| Game | bool | IsSewerQrResolved |   |  |
| Game | bool | IsZuQrResolved |   |  |
| Gomez | int | CollectedCubes |   | The number of small golden cubes the player's collected |
| Gomez | bool | Grounded |   | Is he standing on solid ground? |
| Gomez | bool | CanControl |   | Is Gomez controllable by the player? |
| Gomez | bool | Visible |   | Is Gomez visible? |
| Gomez | bool | IsOnLadder |   |  |
| Gomez | bool | Alive |   |  |
| Gomez | int | CollectedSplits |   |  |
| Level | bool | FirstVisit |   |  |
| Owl | int | OwlsCollected |   | Number of owls collected up to now |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | int | Turns | PivotHandle | Gets the number of turns it's relative to the original state |
| Groups\[id\] | bool | IsSucked | SuckBlock |  |
| Time | int | Hour |   | The hour of day (0-23) |
| Tombstone | int | AlignedCount |   |  |
| Volumes\[id\] | bool | RegisterNeeded |   |  |
| Volumes\[id\] | bool | GomezInside |   | Tests if Gomez is inside a certain volume |
| Volumes\[id\] | bool | IsEnabled |   | Tests if volume is enabled |

### Operations

```note
If an operation has less than the required amount of parameters, the remaining parameters will be set to the default value for that type. (i.e., Strings will be empty strings, numbers will be 0, bool will be false, etc.)
```

| EntityIdentifier | ActionName | Parameters | RestrictedToActorTypes | Description |
|---|
| ArtObjects\[id\] | SetRotation | float x, float y, float z |   | Replaces the rotation angles (in degrees) |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Rotate | float dX, float dY, float dZ |   | Rotates over time (in rotations per second) |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | RotateIncrementally | float initPitch, float initYaw, float initRoll, float secondsUntilDouble |   | Rotates incrementally over time (in time before doubling) |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | TiltOnVertex | float durationSeconds |   | Tilts the art object on its bottom vertex |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Move | float dX, float dY, float dZ, float easeInFor, float easeOutAfter, float easeOutFor |   | Moves incrementally over time (in units per second) |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | HoverFloat | float height, float cyclesPerSecond |   | Makes the object hover vertically |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | StartEldersSequence |  |   | Does the whole hex-room sequence |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | MoveNutToEnd |  |   | Moves a nut&bolt to its end |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | MoveNutToHeight | float height |   | Moves a nut&bolt to a certain height, and gradually |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | GlitchOut | bool permanent, String spawnedActor |   | Glitches and removes art object (and associated group if any) |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | BeamGomez |  |   | For the hexahedron |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Pulse | String textureName |   | For the glow blocks |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | Say | String text, bool zuish |   | For the zuish speech |
| BackgroundPlanes\[id\] | Open |  | BigWaterfall |  |
| Camera | SetPixelsPerTrixel | int triles |   | Set the number of pixels per trixel (default is 4) |
| Camera | SetCanRotate | bool canRotate |   | Changes whether Gomez can rotate the camera |
| Camera | Rotate | int distance |   | Forces camera rotation, left (-1 to -3) or right (1 to 3) |
| Camera | RotateTo | String viewName |   | Rotates to any view orientation (Left, Right, Front, Back) |
| Camera | FadeTo | String colorName |   | Fades to the chosen color (Black, White, etc.) |
| Camera | FadeFrom | String colorName |   | Fades from the chosen color (Black, White, etc.) |
| Camera | Flash | String colorName |   | Flashes the chosen color once (Black, White, etc.) |
| Camera | Shake | float distance, float durationSeconds |   | Shakes the camera and vibrates controller |
| Camera | SetDescending | bool descending |   | Sets the camera offset as descending (true) or ascending (false) |
| Camera | Unconstrain |  |   | Remove the constraints (volume focus etc.) |
| Dot | Say | String line, bool nearGomez, bool hideAfter |   | Makes Dot say a custom text line |
| Dot | ComeBackAndHide | bool withCamera |   | Hides Dot in Gomez's hat |
| Dot | SpiralAround | bool withCamera, bool hideDot |   | Spiral around the level, yo |
| Game | EndTrial | bool forceRestart |   | Stops the trial EXPERIENCE and requires that the game is bought to continue |
| Game | Wait | float seconds |   | Pauses the script for some time |
| Game | GlitchUp |  |   | Glitch up |
| Game | Reboot | String toLevel |   | Reboots |
| Game | SetGravity | bool inverted, float factor |   | Changes gravity |
| Game | ShowScroll | String localizedString, float forSeconds, bool onTop, bool onVolume |   | Show scroll with localized string, for some time or indefinitely (0 or less), at the top or the bottom of the screen |
| Game | CloseScroll | String key |   | Hides the current scroll immediately |
| Game | SetGlobalState | String state |   | Sets a state string that is kept between levels |
| Game | SetLevelState | String state |   | Sets a state string that is local to that level |
| Game | AllowMapUsage |  |   |  |
| Game | Start32BitCutscene |  |   |  |
| Game | Start64BitCutscene |  |   |  |
| Game | Checkpoint |  |   |  |
| Game | ResolveMapQR |  |   |  |
| Game | ResolveSewerQR |  |   |  |
| Game | ResolveZuQR |  |   |  |
| Game | ShowCapsuleLetter |  |   |  |
| Gomez | SetCanControl | bool controllable |   | Sets whether Gomez can be controlled by the player |
| Gomez | SetAction | String actionName |   | Sets the current action (animation) for Gomez |
| Gomez | AllowEnterTunnel |  |   | Allows Gomez to enter that tunnel/passageway by pressing up |
| Gomez | SetFezVisible | bool visible |   | Shows/Hides gomez's fez |
| Gomez | SetGomezVisible | bool visible |   | Shows/Hides gomez |
| Groups\[id\] | StartPath | bool backwards |   | Starts the group's moving path (must be set 'Needs Trigger') |
| Groups\[id\] | RunPathOnce | bool backwards |   | Runs the group's moving path, but only once (must be set 'Needs Trigger') |
| Groups\[id\] | RunSingleSegment | bool backwards |   | Runs a single segment of the group's moving path (must be set 'Needs Trigger') |
| Groups\[id\] | Stop |  |   | Stops or pauses a moving group |
| Groups\[id\] | Move | float dX, float dY, float dZ |   | Moves a group incrementally over time (units per second) |
| Groups\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled |   | Enables or disables all of a group's triles |
| Groups\[id\] | MovePathToEnd |  |   | Moves a moving group to the end of its path |
| Groups\[id\] | GlitchyDespawn | bool permanent |   | Moves a moving group to the end of its path |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled | LaserEmitter | Starts or stops an emitter |
| Level | AllowPipeChangeLevel | String levelName |   | Changes the level MARIO-STYLE |
| Level | ChangeLevel | String levelName, bool asDoor, bool spin, bool trialEnding |   | Changes the level; if 'asDoor' is true, the level change occurs if gomez enters the door, else it's done immediately |
| Level | ReturnToLastLevel | bool asDoor, bool spin |   | Returns to the last accessed level; if 'asDoor' is true, the level change occurs if gomez enters the door, else it's done immediately |
| Level | ChangeToFarAwayLevel | String levelName, int toVolume, bool trialEnding |   | Changes the faraway level to a specific volume in the destination level; if 'asDoor' is true, the level change occurs if gomez enters the door, else it's done immediately |
| Level | ChangeLevelToVolume | String levelName, int toVolume, bool asDoor, bool spin, bool trialEnding |   | Changes the level to a specific volume in the destination level; if 'asDoor' is true, the level change occurs if gomez enters the door, else it's done immediately |
| Level | ExploChangeLevel | String levelName |   | Produces an epic explosion and changes level when it's done. |
| Level | SetWaterHeight | float height |   | Smoothly changes to a new water height |
| Level | RaiseWater | float unitsPerSecond, float stopAtHeight |   | Makes water rise to a certain threshold |
| Level | StopWater |  |   | Makes water stop raising immediately |
| Level | ResolvePuzzle |  |   | Marks a puzzle as solved, and plays the chime |
| Level | ResolvePuzzleSilent |  |   | Silently resolves a puzzle |
| Level | ResolvePuzzleSoundOnly |  |   |  |
| NonPlayerCharacters\[id\] | Say | String line, String customSound, String customAnimation |   | Makes the NPC say a custom text line |
| NonPlayerCharacters\[id\] | CarryGeezerLetter |  |   | CarryGeezerLetter |
| Paths\[id\] | Start | bool inTransition, bool outTransition |   | Applies the whole path to the camera |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled | PivotHandle | Enables or disables a pivot handle's rotatability |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | RotateTo | int turns | PivotHandle | Enables or disables a pivot handle's rotatability |
| BackgroundPlanes\[id\] | FadeIn | float seconds |   |  |
| BackgroundPlanes\[id\] | FadeOut | float seconds |   |  |
| BackgroundPlanes\[id\] | Flicker | float factor |   |  |
| Groups\[id\] | Rotate | bool clockwise, int turns | RotatingGroup |  |
| Groups\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled | RotatingGroup |  |
| Scripts\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled |   | Enables or disables a script |
| Scripts\[id\] | Evaluate |  |   | Evaluates a script |
| Sound | Play | String soundName |   | Plays a sound by its filename |
| Sound | PlayNext | String soundPrefix |   | Plays a sound by its prefix and an auto-incremented index (starts at 1) |
| Sound | SetMusicVolume | float volume |   | Changes the volume of BGM |
| Sound | ResetIndices | String soundPrefix |   | Resets the indices for a sound |
| Sound | ChangeMusic | String newMusic |   | Changes the music track and plays it |
| Sound | UnmuteTrack | String trackName, float fadeDuration |   | Enables a track by its name |
| Sound | MuteTrack | String trackName, float fadeDuration |   | Disables a track by its name |
| Sound | UnmuteAmbience | String trackName, float fadeDuration |   |  |
| Sound | MuteAmbience | String trackName, float fadeDuration |   |  |
| Sound | FadeMusicOut | float overSeconds |   | Fades the music out |
| Sound | FadeMusicTo | float to, float overSeconds |   |  |
| Sound | ChangePhases | String trackName, bool dawn, bool day, bool dusk, bool night |   |  |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled | SpinBlock | Enables or disables a spinblock (which ceases or resumes its spinning) |
| Groups\[id\] | Activate |  | PushSwitch, ExploSwitch, PushSwitchPermanent | Activates this switch |
| Groups\[id\] | ChangeTrile | int newTrileId | PushSwitch, ExploSwitch, PushSwitchPermanent | Changes the visual of this switch's triles |
| Time | SetHour | int hour, bool immediate |   | Changes the hour of day (0-23), gradually or immediately |
| Time | SetTimeFactor | int factor |   | Sets the speed of time passage (0 = paused) |
| Time | IncrementTimeFactor | float secondsUntilDouble |   | Increments the time factor (specifying how much time before it doubles up) |
| Tombstone | UpdateAlignCount | int count |   |  |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled | Valve, BoltHandle | Enables or disables a valve's rotatability |
| Volumes\[id\] | FocusCamera | int pixelsPerTrixel, bool immediate |   | Center the camera view on this volume; set a value <= 0 to pixelsPerTrixels if you don't want to alter it. Immediate doesn't wait for an end-trigger |
| Volumes\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled, bool permanent |   | Disables or enables this volume |
| Volumes\[id\] | SlowFocusOn | float duration, float trixPerPix |   | Slowly focuses camera on a volume |
| Volumes\[id\] | LoadHexahedronAt | String toLevel |   | Loads the hex in the middle of a specified volume, and warp to the specified level afterwards |
| Volumes\[id\] | PlaySoundAt | String soundName, bool loop, float initialDelay, float perLoopDelay, bool directional, float pitchVariation |   | Plays a sound on the specified volume, looped or not, directional or not (follows volume's enabled directions) |
| Volumes\[id\] | MoveDotWithCamera |  |   | Moves Dot and the camera to the specified volume's center |
| Volumes\[id\] | FocusWithPan | int pixelsPerTrixel, float verticalPan, float horizontalPan |   | Focuses the camera with panning support |
| Volumes\[id\] | SpawnTrileAt | String actorTypeName |   | Spawns a treasure trile at this volume's location |
| ArtObjects\[id\] | SetEnabled | bool enabled | WarpGate |  |
